README.md, before:

Packaging and customizations for Auth0's [AD LDAP connector](https://github.com/auth0/ad-ldap-connector)

# Current state

The code in this repo
* creates checksums
* verifies that the package's checksum matches a known-good point in time checksum.
* patches the Auth0 code with Mozilla specific customizations
* packages everything into a single RPM and which has systemd init support added to it.

# Ideally

The upstream package would need modifications to properly install without 
prompting the user on first install. Additionally, all npm packages should be 
separate RPMs.

# Build the RPM

- Provision a CentOS 7 or CentOS 8 VM to work from
  - `sudo yum install -y git make`
  - `git clone https://github.com/mozilla-iam/ad-ldap-connector-rpm && cd ad-ldap-connector-rpm`
  - `make setup`
- `make clean`
  - Make sure you start from a clean state, otherwise dependencies will be missing
- Ensure that the version number you want to build is present in the `Makefile`
- `make fpm` to produce the RPM which calls in sequence
  1. `make download` which fetches the archive
  2. `make verify` which checks the hash of the archive
  3. `make extract` which extracts the archive
  4. `make npm_download` which fetches all the npm dependencies
  5. `make npm_verify` which checks the hashes of all the dependencies
  6. `make patch` which applies the Mozilla customizations to the `ad-ldap-connector`

If you changed npm dependencies, after verifying them, you can run `make regenerate_sums`
to produce a new `npm_modules.sha256sum` file

# Install the RPM

- Install the rpm (`yum` or `rpm -U ad-ldap-connector-1.2.3_mozilla-1.x86_64.rpm`)
  - This will show the following output during installation
    ```
    Preparing...                          ################################# [100%]
    You will need to run:
    $ cd /opt/ad-ldap-connector && sudo -u ad-ldap-connector node server.js
    Once manually the first time in order to setup the connector. Also ensure /opt/ad-ldap-connector/environ is set.
    Configure /opt/ad-ldap-connector/config.json afterwards and run the usual systemd commands:
    $ systemctl start ad-ldap-connector
    $ systemctl enable ad-ldap-connector
    Updating / installing...
       1:ad-ldap-connector-1.2.3_mozilla-################################# [100%]
    ```
- Change the file `/opt/ad-ldap-connector/environ` if you use a proxy
- Copy over your previous certs directory and `config.json`. If you have no 
  previous version you're done.

# Run the LDAP Connector

First time run is interactive in order to fetch the Auth0 ticket:

    $ sudo -u ad-ldap-connector node server.js
  
You can then modify `config.json` and start the daemon:

    $ systemctl start ad-ldap-connector
  
    $ systemctl enable ad-ldap-connector
  
Verify it works at https://manage.auth0.com/#/connections/enterprise

Commit message:

Move http proxy configuration out of the package
Defining your proxy inside a package is a recipe for disaster.
Those things are best handled by configs.  In fact, we're actually NOT
setting a proxy in this package, we're adding some cruft that makes you
think we're doing it, when we're not.  Abdicate responsibility for setting
the proxy and remind the user to do it.

README.md, after:

Packaging and customizations for Auth0's [AD LDAP connector](https://github.com/auth0/ad-ldap-connector)

# Current state

The code in this repo
* creates checksums
* verifies that the package's checksum matches a known-good point in time checksum.
* patches the Auth0 code with Mozilla specific customizations
* packages everything into a single RPM and which has systemd init support added to it.

# Ideally

The upstream package would need modifications to properly install without 
prompting the user on first install. Additionally, all npm packages should be 
separate RPMs.

# Build the RPM

- Provision a CentOS 7 or CentOS 8 VM to work from
  - `sudo yum install -y git make`
  - `git clone https://github.com/mozilla-iam/ad-ldap-connector-rpm && cd ad-ldap-connector-rpm`
  - `make setup`
- `make clean`
  - Make sure you start from a clean state, otherwise dependencies will be missing
- Ensure that the version number you want to build is present in the `Makefile`
- `make fpm` to produce the RPM which calls in sequence
  1. `make download` which fetches the archive
  2. `make verify` which checks the hash of the archive
  3. `make extract` which extracts the archive
  4. `make npm_download` which fetches all the npm dependencies
  5. `make npm_verify` which checks the hashes of all the dependencies
  6. `make patch` which applies the Mozilla customizations to the `ad-ldap-connector`

If you changed npm dependencies, after verifying them, you can run `make regenerate_sums`
to produce a new `npm_modules.sha256sum` file

# Install the RPM

- Install the rpm (`yum` or `rpm -U ad-ldap-connector-1.2.3_mozilla-1.x86_64.rpm`)
  - This will show the following output during installation
    ```
    Preparing...                          ################################# [100%]

    You will need to...

    * (if you have a proxy) Ensure you set up the proxy via a systemd dropin or unit file.

    $ cd /opt/ad-ldap-connector && sudo -u ad-ldap-connector node server.js
    once manually the first time in order to setup the connector.

    Configure /opt/ad-ldap-connector/config.json afterwards and run the usual systemd commands:
    $ systemctl start ad-ldap-connector
    $ systemctl enable ad-ldap-connector

    Updating / installing...
       1:ad-ldap-connector-1.2.3_mozilla-################################# [100%]
    ```
- As noted, create a dropin or unit file for ad-ldap-connector.service in systemd, ala:
  ```
  # mkdir /etc/systemd/system/ad-ldap-connector.service.d
  # cat << EOHEREDOC > /etc/systemd/system/ad-ldap-connector.service.d/use-proxy.conf
  [Service]
  Environment=http_proxy=proxy.example.com:3128
  Environment=https_proxy=proxy.example.com:3128
  EOHEREDOC
  ```
- Copy over your previous certs directory and `config.json`. If you have no 
  previous version you're done.

# Run the LDAP Connector

First time run is interactive in order to fetch the Auth0 ticket:

    $ sudo -u ad-ldap-connector node server.js
  
You can then modify `config.json` and start the daemon:

    $ systemctl start ad-ldap-connector
  
    $ systemctl enable ad-ldap-connector
  
Verify it works at https://manage.auth0.com/#/connections/enterprise
